# Data Lake Storage Gen2

#### Overview

This document covers the CLI steps to create Azure Gen2 storage, then assigning managed identity.

### Features

* **Hadoop Compatible Access**
    
    Allows access like HDFS file system. 
    The driver for the file system is available in HDInsight, Databricks Cluster, and SQL Data Warehouse.
    By using Managed Identity, your clusters can directly without the need for keys.
    
* **Hierarchical namespace**
     
    The object stores give the feel of file system by using slashes ('\\'). 
    While renaming, moving objects that does not help. Each object is renamed or moved, 
    which is time consuming.
    
    While Gen2 storage allows hierarchical namespace, which means the operations like renaming, move, delete directories are faster.
    A lot of spark and hadoop operations first write temp objects and then rename them to have actual name. 
    E.g. temp parquet file might have 5000 small part* files, renaming them on BLOB vs renaming on Gen2 would be faster.
    
* **Build on top of BLOB**

    As it is built on top BLOB storage. So you can either use BLOB APIs or Gen2 APIs. Also pricing is same as BLOB.   

#### Steps

* [1 min] Install azure cli and then login to your azure account from terminal. 
It will take you to the browser to login.

    ```
    az login
    ```

* **Environment variables**: Use the commands below to set the Resource group and other environment variables.

    ```
    export LOC=westus
    ```

* **Subscription**: Set the subscription.

    ```
    az account set --subscription <subscriptionid>
    ```

* [1 min] **Resource Group**: Only create if you do not have it already.

    ```
    export RESOURCE_GROUP=rg-casestudy1
    az group create --name $RESOURCE_GROUP --location $LOC
    ```

* [1 min] **Managed Identity**: Only create if you do not have it already.

    ```
    export IDENTITY=identity-casestudy1
    az identity create -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n $IDENTITY
    ```

* **Gen2 Extension**: Add extension to Azure CLI to use the new feature of Gen2
    ```
    az extension add --name storage-preview
    ```

* [2 mins] **Storage Gen2 Creation**: Make sure the last parameter `hierarchical-namespace` is set to True. 
This allows one to manage BLOB as if it is file system. 
_For more information visit [Azure Gen2 link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/data-lake-storage-namespace)_
    
    ```
    export AZ_DLAKE_GEN2=gen2storagecasestudy1
    az storage account create --name $AZ_DLAKE_GEN2 --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --location $LOC --sku Standard_LRS --kind StorageV2 --hierarchical-namespace true
    ```

* [1 min] **Assign Managed Identity**: This needs to be done from the Azure portal.
_Note: The CLI option not available yet to assign._

    * Open the storage account.
    * Go to 'Access Control' --> 'Role assignment'
    * Click on 'Add' --> 'Role assignment'
    * Set the role to 'Storage Blob Data Owner'
    * Set the 'Assign Access to' to 'User Assigned Managed Identity'
    * Select the identity 'identity-casestudy1' and 'Save'
